So, I'm Pedro, Pedro Silva, and today we are going to look at how we can make collaboration
online yours, and how those customizations can actually lead into new features, while
going through some cool new features, why not?
So, we start over with these different themes and different aspects that collaboration can
have, but not only we can have these different faces, but we can also have different buttons.
If you have a different button that you'd like to have, or maybe you are hacking on
something and you want to have it in front of a button that triggers something, you can
do that, and we'll show later how, but spoiler alert, you know, we have an XML file that
you can customize it, we have a post message API that you can actually use that to hack
directly onto the interface and beyond, and third of all, we also have some kind of cool
variables that go through some invisible input field that then customize it.
So, you know, there is a lot of stuff that you can just hack around.
And by the way, language tool, as described by Michael Mix, thanks to Athenaeus, and we
got this cool integration, file properties, another improved and now native functionality.
You see here on this tab, there is plenty of space.
You might want to add a button here.
Why not?
It's a good candidate to do that.
Sparklines, accessibility check.
We go through these new features, you know, how we can create diagrams.
And you will soon start to feel that, okay, this is fitting my workflow, but maybe I want
to go a step further.
You know, by the way, we can even do this crazy stuff.
Isn't it crazy?
On a browser, I don't know, I think it's crazy.
And while doing this, you know, we got a lot of performance whims left and right, which
is, you know, it's cool and all, but what about new features?
What about upcoming features?
So, you know, we work with the LibreOffice technology around, in a group, with friends,
and this means not only the people that are here, but even other people, you know, like
for instance, in this case, next cloud.
And we are just doing something that can start with online, then forces us to go to the core,
to the LibreOffice kit, and in the process, we are improving both sides.
So that's interesting.
For instance, this is an example with form controls.
As Miklos described, content controls, right?
Repair documents.
Repair improvements, but how do we make it, how we customize it?
That's the question.
So, as I hinted before, we can do that via XML, and there is a lot of variables that
you can just turn on, turn off.
We even saw it earlier with the PranamStalk, one of those examples.
But you can set what's going to be the default UI mode.
If you want to go a little bit further, you can hack what will be those key colors that
we can see, and you see here the input values that we can pass.
Or why not hack it directly into it?
Maybe you have a different, you know, your native language is not English, and you might
want to test it on that.
You know, maybe you don't know, but you can add, you know, at the end of your URL, you
can add this at the end lang, and for some different language directional layout, and
you can test that, and maybe even help us, you know, translate.
Why not?
You can just go to the web late and just start to contribute.
And you see, all those things are, you are making that yours, because it's answering
your problem, but at the same time, you are helping everyone else.
So I think that's the key here.
You are inserting a new custom button, for this insert button, it's just one of the options
that you can use and have used with the post message API.
So if you go to sdk.coloronline.com, slash docs, slash post message API, you will see
all these listed in the table with examples, so you can just hack it, you know, and have
fun with it.
You know, even if it doesn't work out of the box, even if you are trying to hack something
and it breaks, it's okay.
You know, you can always keep in touch, you can go to cola slash io, and there is there,
you know, our IRC, our matrix, telegram, all these things.
You can report bugs, you know, and maybe push a PR, you know, and you will find out that
maybe your PR will lead to learn more about LibreOffice, technology LibreOffice kit, and
suddenly you already have two PRs, both on cola online and on Garret on LibreOffice.
So hopefully it's what will happen.
You know, and while doing that, you have three minutes, questions, yes, and while you are
doing that, you will be able to experiment crazy new features, the bleeding edge that
still no one knows about it because you build it.
So you know, maybe you can already see what is happening there, what's the new features,
new integration that's coming, heat on citations, but many more things, yeah.
So I hope you take it at heart and give it a go, and you know, join the team.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Any questions?
We've got some, two and a half minutes.
Thank you.
I use colabora on my next cloud.
Can I do all this on my next cloud?
Yes.
Why not?
Yes, if you have your bill environment, you can hack all these things and have it.
Now, if you have a production environment, that's probably what you are hitting at, okay,
then you can still do some of these customizations just by simply hacking on the cool wst.xml,
that it should be under ATC directory and you should find there, cool wst.xml.
And you can, for instance, set up the default UI, what will be the default UI that will
appear, you know, if you want to allow, if you want to use the integrators theme or not,
for instance, if you are using the next cloud, next cloud has its own theme, so you can hack
all these things.
What's the default language?
Maybe you have like three or four languages there, as a list, and maybe you don't need.
Maybe you just use like maybe two, Portuguese or English or something, and both, too, and
you can remove the others and it will maybe use less resources.
So you know, there is a lot of things you can hack.
We'll do.
Thank you.
30 seconds, one very quick question and answer.
If not, go for the matrix chat.
Thank you.
Okay, thanks.
Alright, thank you.
Thank you.